Server Access Logging
Understand how access logs can be managed using S3 server access logging.

What’s server access logging?
Server access logging in AWS S3 helps keep a record of the access made to a bucket and its objects.

An access request can be made by a user or an AWS service. Using server access logs, 
these access requests are stored in the form of log files, which can be analyzed whenever required.

Access logs contain information about the requester, bucket name, request time, request ID, 
operation, requester IP, response status, error code, and so on.

Server access logging is disabled by default, and logs are written inside a bucket. 
This bucket must be created before we enable server access logs for any bucket. 
It’s recommended to create a separate dedicated bucket for logging purposes.


Enable server access logging using the AWS console
 We do this in the following way:

Select the bucket for which server access logs need to be enabled.
Go to “Properties” and edit “Server access logging.”
Choose “Enable” and specify the target bucket to store the access logs.
Click on “Save changes.”


Access logs are delivered by the S3 log delivery group. 
When we enable server access logging, S3 automatically updates the bucket policy to 
allow write access to the log delivery group.

@Note- ####
Server access log delivery takes some time. We’ll be able to see logs in our target bucket 
after a few hours. If static web hosting is enabled for the source bucket, website access logs 
will also be delivered to the target bucket.


//-------------------------------

Object-specific constraints#
If the object size is smaller than 128 KB, AWS S3 won’t transition that object between the following storage classes:

Transition from S3 Standard to S3 Standard-IA, S3 One Zone-IA, S3 Intelligent-Tiering, or S3 Glacier is 
not supported.

Transition from S3 Standard-IA to S3 Intelligent-Tiering or S3 Glacier is not supported.
Objects must be stored for at least 30 days in S3 Standard before they can be transitioned to 
S3 Standard-IA or S3 One Zone-IA.

//--------------------

Expiring objects#
Another feature that lifecycle rules provide is the automatic expiration of objects after a certain specified time period.

For example, we configured a bucket to store server access logs in the last lesson. 
These log objects can grow large in size based on the access patterns. Depending upon the 
requirement, we might need to retain the access logs of only 30 or more days. In such a case, 
we can configure an automatic expiration of objects after 30 or more days using the expiration 
lifecycle rule.

//-----------day-07 completed--------------------